.net6 and vs2022 fixes as per #25341 (#27200)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/publish-to-azure-api-management-using-vs.md

description: Learn how to publish an ASP.NET Core web API to Azure API Management using Visual Studio.
ms.author: masoucou
ms.custom: "devx-track-csharp, mvc"
ms.date: 10/05/2022
uid: tutorials/publish-to-azure-api-management-using-vs
---
# Publish an ASP.NET Core web API to Azure API Management with Visual Studio

By [Matt Soucoup](https://twitter.com/codemillmatt)

In this tutorial you'll learn how to create an ASP.NET Core web API project using Visual Studio, ensure it has OpenAPI support, and then publish the web API to both Azure App Service and Azure API Management.

## Set up

To complete the tutorial you'll need an Azure account.

* Open a [free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/dotnet/) if you don't have one.

## Create an ASP.NET Core web API

Visual Studio allows you to easily create a new ASP.NET Core web API project from a template. Follow these directions to create a new ASP.NET Core web API project:

> * From the File menu, select New > Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the File menu, select **New** > **Project**.
```

> * Enter Web API in the search box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enter **Web API** in the search box.
```

> * Select the ASP.NET Core Web API template and select Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select the **ASP.NET Core Web API** template and select **Next**.
```

> * In the Configure your new project dialog, name the project WeatherAPI and select Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **Configure your new project dialog**, name the project **WeatherAPI** and select **Next**.
```

> * In the Additional information dialog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **Additional information** dialog:
```

> * Confirm the Framework is .NET 6.0 (Long-term support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm the Framework is **.NET 6.0 (Long-term support)**.
```

> * Confirm the checkbox for Use controllers (uncheck to use minimal APIs) is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm the checkbox for **Use controllers (uncheck to use minimal APIs)** is checked.
```

> * Confirm the checkbox for Enable OpenAPI support is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm the checkbox for **Enable OpenAPI support** is checked.
```

> * Select Create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Create**.
```

## Explore the code

> Swagger definitions allow Azure API Management to read the app's API definitions. By checking the _Enable OpenAPI support_ checkbox during app creation, Visual Studio will automatically add the code to create the Swagger definitions. Open up the `Program.cs` file and you'll see the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swagger definitions allow Azure API Management to read the app's API definitions. By checking the **Enable OpenAPI support** checkbox during app creation, Visual Studio automatically adds the code to create the Swagger definitions. Open up the `Program.cs` file which shows the following code:
```

```csharp

...

builder.Services.AddSwaggerGen();

...

if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseSwagger();
    app.UseSwaggerUI();
}

...

```

### Ensure the Swagger definitions are always generated

> Azure API Management needs the Swagger definitions to always be present, regardless of the application's environment. To ensure they are always generated, move `app.UseSwagger();` outside of the `if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())` block. In addition, you can 

Reviewer: > In addition, you can
can what?

BTW, in this repo we prefer to not use `you`. It's generally unnecessary.

Author: Updated in subsequent commit.

> The code should now look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated code:
```

```csharp

...

app.UseSwagger();

if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseSwaggerUI();
}

...

```

### Change the API routing

> Next, you'll change the URL structure needed to access the `Get` action of the `WeatherForecastController`. Complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the URL structure needed to access the `Get` action of the `WeatherForecastController`. Complete the following steps:
```
Next is dead wood and banned from this repo.

1. Open the `WeatherForecastController.cs` file.

> 1. Replace the `[Route("[controller]")]` class-level attribute with `[Route("/")]`. The class definition will look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the `[Route("[controller]")]` class-level attribute with `[Route("/")]`. The updated class definition :
```

1. In the **Publish** dialog, select **Azure** and select the **Next** button.    
1. Select **Azure App Service (Windows)** and select the **Next** button.
1. Select **Create a new Azure App Service**.

    The **Create App Service** dialog appears. The **App Name**, **Resource Group**, and **App Service Plan** entry fields are populated. You can keep these names or change them.

1. Select the **Create** button.
1. Once the app service is created, select the **Next** button.
1. Select **Create a new API Management Service**.

    The **Create API Management Service** dialog appears. You can leave the **API Name**, **Subscription Name**, and **Resource Group** entry fields as they are. Select the **new** button next to the **API Management Service** entry and enter the required fields from that dialog box.

    Select the **OK** button to create the API Management service.

1. Select the **Create** button to proceed with the API Management service creation. This step may take several minutes to complete.
1. When that completes, select the **Finish** button.
1. The dialog closes and a summary screen appears with information about the publish. Select the **Publish** button.

>     The web API will publish to both Azure App Service and Azure API Management. A new browser window will appear and show the API running in Azure App Service. You can close that window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The web API publishs to both Azure App Service and Azure API Management. A new browser window will appear and show the API running in Azure App Service. You can close that window.
```
Sorry, fixing style guide violation. Future tense is prohibited unless needed.

1. Open up the Azure portal in a web browser and navigate to the API Management instance you created.
1. Select the **APIs** option from the left-hand menu.
1. Select the API you created in the preceding steps. It's now populated and you can explore around.

### Configure the published API name

Notice the name of the API is named *WeatherAPI*; however, we would like to call it *Weather Forecasts*. Complete the following steps to update the name:

1. Add the following to `Program.cs` immediately after `servies.AddSwaggerGen();`
    
    ```csharp
    builder.Services.ConfigureSwaggerGen(setup =>
    {
        setup.SwaggerDoc("v1", new Microsoft.OpenApi.Models.OpenApiInfo
        {
            Title = "Weather Forecasts",
            Version = "v1"
        });
    });
    ```

>    

Reviewer: All of this is really clumsy. Can you open an issue on this doc and I'll create the project and import snippets. With snippets you can show more code and highlight the updates, changes, etc.

Author: Yes, I'll create the issue after the merge.
